we begin with breaking news from Gaza
where Israeli forces are carrying out a
raid on gaza's largest hospital alifa
they've asked everyone to gather in the
courtyard in preparation for the
evacuation from the medical complex
earlier the director of Health said he'd
heard gunfire and the movement of
Israeli tanks inside the complex there
are reports that an Israeli air strike
had hit the fourth floor of the main
building well days of Asian air strikes
have crippled elifa which is situated in
Gaza City in the north more than 3,000
patients medical staff and displaced
Palestinians are Sheltering in the
complex at least 11,300 Palestinians
have been killed since October the
7th doctors say patients at alifa are at
critical risk dozens of premature babies
were transferred on Tuesday within the
facility to an area with electricity but
they're not in incubators because oxygen
supplies have run
out let's speak now to Han Mahmud he
joins us now live from hanun inside the
Gaza Strip Hy good to see you what is
the latest that you're hearing about
this Israeli Raid inside alifa
Hospital yes well uh as we know within
the past few days the aifa hospital
complex has been brought to uh crippling
Point under heavy uh air strikes and
bombardment and tank shells and as of
early hours of this morning is really
special forces uh under heavy cover of
gunfire and tank shells has raided uh
the uh aifa hospital and what they are
doing now they're conducting this
aggressive search room by room Corridor
by Corridor uh uh all the way to the
basement of the hospital uh to searching
for uh uh what they what is really has
claimed so far based on their
intelligence or what the or in addition
to American intelligence that the shifa
hospital houses a a a command center for
uh Hamas leadership and Hamas element
carrying out their their operation and
this is not the first time we hear that
we heard it since the beginning of the
war and also in the past that sha
hospital was at the spotlight of these
uh these claims so far there are no uh
concrete uh evidence of what the Israeli
claims uh uh put forward uh but what
what really frustrating about these rid
that we have some of the most vulnerable
group of people inside the hospital
babies who were have been taken off the
uh the incubators we have those
critically injured we have patients with
a chronic disease and some of them
having they need that oxygen they need
electricity to stay in the Intensive
Care Unit uh on top of that uh there are
electronic Gates Now set up around the
uh V around the buildings of the
hospital where evacuees those who took
took the hospital as a refuge Sheltering
from the heav bombardment are asked
individually they are interrogated and
then they're taking uh and forced to
take their clothes off and sat in groups
in at the court uh at the courtyard of
the hospital and as since last night the
weather hasn't changed it's getting a
little colder there is rain so there's
some inhumane conditions going on with
those evacuees being interrogated pulled
out of the building and sat outside uh
uh with almost uh their they close off
in at the the courty yard of the
hospital uh there are talks about these
really are making uh these uh they're
providing medical some medical supplies
and incubators for the babies is just
the questions uh Al always the
practicality of this this has come after
three uh four three days of heavy
bombardment of the hospital and its
facility destroying much of its uh its
necessities and and an intensive care
unit and incubator those babies needed
right away to be in in incubators but
after 3 days uh we don't see the how
practical this going to be but the
situations are getting very very uh
critical at the hospital now yeah you
you the Israelis are talking have been
talking about getting incubators uh to
alifa but the issue as far as I
understand it is not the lack of
incubators it is the lack of oxygen uh
what is the latest you can tell me about
the fate of these 36 babies I believe uh
who were recently moved uh to another
room are they all still
alive well we know those babies are
already in danger they were born at a a
premature station they needed to be in
incubators they need all the Necessities
they need that flow of oxygen to stay
alive and to sustain their growth but
for the past 3 days we know there was no
oxygen the pipe the station next to the
uh the incubators was destroyed 3 days
ago there's no flow of oxygen what
doctors uh have resorted to is just a
very old methods to uh keep those babies
alive by wrapping them with multiple
layers of of a blank but this is so far
is not helping us not provide them with
the suitable environment that they
needed to grow and we know those baby
have to be inside those incubators so
the talk about now they they're bringing
those incubators okay how about the
oxygen how are you going to provide that
is there is is there a pipeline for
oxygen or are you going to fix that
station uh that generates oxygen so
there are a lot of question mark about
this and my fear is that this is all I
mean there is a lot of publicity about
this going on but how practical it is
and based on what we heard from doctors
in the shifa hospital it's not going to
uh to help at all it's been a three days
those babies are out of incubators those
critically injured are not getting the
immediate medical intervention and the
in the Intensive Care Unit and now the
talk about medical supplies and
incubators it it doesn't seem to help at
all other than the publicity it's it's
getting right and honey I wanted to also
uh find out a bit more about the
humanitarian situation uh of the people
that have moved from the north to the
south in hunis you are I understand that
there was some heavy rain yesterday A
lot of these people obviously living in
makeshift tents uh the rain would have
caused a lot of uh uh
problems yes absolutely the the rain has
unfortunately uh made the conditions for
these people for evacuees very bad as we
most of these people here at the
hospital for example the vast majority
of vacu as the number triple every
family tried to set up those a plastic
Shack or plastic tent uh to just to stay
in it but with the Heavy Rain uh most of
these uh tent have drowned and with
water inside their on on mattresses on
their the equipment that they manag to
get with them it just the situations are
not very very suitable for for for
humans uh right now and people who are
in the streets who don't have any of
these uh uh uh
elements at all no tents no uh survival
items with them so in our way to the
hospital we've seen a example of how
people are just standing in the rain
trying to hide under a tree or under a
balcony but it's it doesn't help the the
rain was so heavy and and it just it
drowned most of the areas and we really
know infrastructure in Gaza suffered a
lot due to the heavy bombardment and the
the air strike and and even before that
it was it was reported that uh the
infrastructure needed lots of work just
to to be suitable for for people living
uh around here uh but unfortunately the
situations are are getting really worse
what what makes it more uh worse now is
that the lack of of supplies we're
talking about there is no gas for
example propane gas is running out as
well so people have no way of of setting
up those uh uh uh
a special uh object to just to warm
thems in this cold weather uh they don't
have let's say uh enough food supplies
to stay healthy they don't have medical
supplies uh just to run the the
necessary intervention to fight for
example the flu or or cold okay thank
you so much for your reporting and that
update hanim Mahmud there